He   pointed his finger in   friendly jest and went over to   the parapet,
laughing to   himself. Stephen Dedalus stepped up, followed him wearily
halfway and sat down on   the edge of   the gunrest, watching him still as
he   propped his mirror on   the parapet, dipped the brush in the bowl and
lathered cheeks and neck.

Buck Mulligan's gay voice went on.

My   name is absurd too: Malachi Mulligan, two dactyls. But it   has a
Hellenic ring, hasn't it? Tripping and sunny like the buck himself.
We   must go to Athens. Will you come if   I can get the aunt to   fork out
twenty quid?

He   laid the brush aside and, laughing with delight, cried:
Will he   come? The jejune jesuit!
Ceasing, he   began to   shave with care.
Tell me, Mulligan, Stephen said quietly.
Yes, my   love?

How long is   Haines going to   stay in   this tower?
Buck Mulligan showed a  shaven cheek over his right shoulder.
God, isn't he dreadful? he   said frankly. A   ponderous Saxon. He
thinks you're not a  gentleman. God, these bloody English! Bursting
with money and indigestion. Because he   comes from Oxford. You know,
Dedalus, you have the real Oxford manner. He can't make you out. O,   my
name for you is   the best: Kinch, the knife-blade.

He   shaved warily over his chin.
He   was raving all night about a  black panther, Stephen said. Where is
his guncase?

A  woful lunatic! Mulligan said. Were you in a funk?

I  was, Stephen said with energy and growing fear. Out here in   the
dark with a  man I don't know raving and moaning to himself about
shooting a  black panther. You saved men from drowning. I'm not a hero,
however. If   he   stays on   here I  am   off.

Buck Mulligan frowned at   the lather on   his razorblade. He hopped down
from his perch and began to   search his trouser pockets hastily.
Scutter! he   cried thickly.
He   came over to   the gunrest and, thrusting a hand into Stephen's upper
pocket, said:
Lend us   a  loan of   your noserag to   wipe my   razor.

Stephen suffered him to   pull out and hold up on show by   its corner a
dirty crumpled handkerchief. Buck Mulligan wiped the razorblade neatly.
Then, gazing over the handkerchief, he   said:
The bard's noserag! A  new art colour for our Irish poets:
snotgreen. You can almost taste it, can't you?